New documentation: Account management (#3522)
mattermost/docs: source/overview/license-and-subscription.rst

> Licensing and Subscription

Author: Good point and one that Jason pointed out which I didn't follow up. Is the link in the channel header the one we're using or is there a different one?

> Licensing and Subscription

Author: I like this idea - more than happy to add screenshots.

> Licensing and Subscription

Author: Link added as provided by Katie.

> Licensing and Subscription

Reviewer: I think that pages make sense

----------------------

> Mattermost offers a secure self-service portal where you can manage your Mattermost Enterprise subscriptions for your on-premises deployments.

Author: Removed.

> All your licenses are listed in the portal, including their start and end dates, providing you with an at-a-glance overview of your account, making it easier to manage purchases and renewal dates.

Author: ```suggestion
All your licenses are listed in the portal, including their start and end dates, providing you with an at-a-glance overview of your account, making it easier to manage purchases and renewal dates.
```
@rbradleyhaas, is this accurate for all licenses/customers?

Reviewer 2: It is not accurate for Phase 1. Only licenses purchased through the portal will be available.

> You can access your account to view information about your:

Reviewer 3: Wherever we say "account" in this page, we should change it to "portal account" to make it clear we're not referring to a product account.

Author: Excellent point, will get this done today.

> You can access your account to view information about your:

Author: Great catch, thank you! Will resolve today.

- Subscription purchases
- Licenses
- Account password
- Organization information
- Payment methods
- Renewals (available in a future release)
- Active users (available in a future release)

Purchasing an Enterprise license
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> 1. Log in to your Mattermost customer profile. If you haven't created a profile, follow the steps provided on the landing page, validate your email address, and then log in.

Author: Updated with this feedback.

2. Choose a subscription type, enter the number of users in the **Order summary** field.
3. (Optional for E20) You can add Premier Support, the cost of which is automatically added to your order total.
4. Select **Next Step**.
5. Enter your billing and payment information.
6. Accept the **Terms**
7. Select **Complete**.

Choose **Download the license key**, and navigate to the Mattermost System Console to apply it.

If you experience any problems with your transaction, please contact our Support Team via the form provided in the Customer Portal.
If possible, keep the error message/number that you received on hand as it may assist with their investigation.

> Applying the license key

Author: I've updated this content with your suggestion.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> 

Author: I've added an introductory line - not sure about using the word "premium" as it may be confused with "premier support"?

.. note::

>    If you are not a System Admin, you will not have access to the System Console to apply the license.

Author: Great question. I've updated the docs with some additional content around this.

Navigate to the **Subscriptions** page of your Mattermost account. Select **Download License** to download the license key for your subscription.

You can apply the license in the Mattermost System Console: **System Console > About > Edition and License**. Follow the steps provided to apply your license key.
You can also use the `CLI <https://docs.mattermost.com/install/ee-install.html#changing-a-license-key>`__ to apply the license.

Viewing license information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You can view your license start date, expiry date, number of users and license type in your account under **Subscription**.

Author: ```suggestion
For licenses purchased using the Customer Portal, you can view the license start date, expiry date, number of users and license type in your account under **Subscription**.

If you are not able to view this information, please contact your CSM. 
```
@rbradleyhaas, does this work better?

Reviewer 2: @justinegeffen definitely

> You can view your license start date, expiry date, number of users and license type in your account under **Subscription**.

Author: ```suggestion
For licenses purchased using the Customer Portal, you can view the license start date, expiry date, number of users and license type in your account under **Subscription**.
```

Adding more users to a purchased license
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can add more users during your subscription period without requesting a license.

> During the annual renewal, a retroactive charge will be placed for any unique users added during the past subscription period that is

Author: This was also brought in from the existing FAQ. I'm 0/5 on whether to include/remove it. I'm 3/5 on moving it to the FAQ as "Can I add more users to my purchased subscription" with directions to contact the CSM.

above the licensed total unique users in the current paid subscription. The retroactive charge per user will be the initial subscription
cost per user.

Renewing an Enterprise license
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ability to renew your license in the Customer Portal will be available in a future release.
To renew your license in the meantime, contact your CSM to start the renewal process.

Frequently Asked Questions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Are my credit card details safe?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> We use `Stripe <https://stripe.com/payments>`_ to process credit card transactions. We do not store any credit card details at any stage. Payments made by credit card are authenticated using `3D Secure <https://support.payfast.co.za/article/96-what-is-3d-secure-visa-secure-mastercard-securecode>`__ which is PCI-DSS compliant.

Author: ```suggestion
We use `Stripe <https://stripe.com/payments>`_ to process credit card transactions. We do not store any credit card details at any stage. Payments made by credit card are authenticated using `3D Secure <https://support.payfast.co.za/article/96-what-is-3d-secure-visa-secure-mastercard-securecode>`__, which is PCI-DSS compliant.
```

> Should you wish to make payment using another method, please contact our Billing team.

Author: Absolutely. I'm awaiting feedback on the correct link.

> Should you wish to make payment using another method, please contact our Billing team.

Reviewer 4: @justinegeffen @esadur - I don't think this is the right motion. Let's say a customer wants to use an alternative billing method, do we wait to provision a license until we get the payment? Making a credit card mandatory, solves for a few things: 1) allows us to charge the customer immediately 2) we have a a credit card on hand to charge for renewals. 

If the customer has to wait for billing, do we hold provisioning a license until the customer has paid us or do we give them the license and wait for payment? Given the limitation of our product and we not have the ability to physically limit the product, we loose our leverage once we deliver the license. This means there is an increased risk that customer will not pay us. Further, this will frustrate the customer and billing needs to be involved to indicate when a customer has paid. This would be a manual workload for my team. 

If there is a case to want to pay via alternative method, I like to request that information be pulling from SFDC for paid records. All paid information of a customer sits in SFDC under the financial record which is pushed from Netsuite.

> Should you wish to make payment using another method, please contact our Billing team.

Reviewer 2: @TQuock if the customer is not purchasing with a credit card, they go through the normal Salesforce process with Sales/CSM. They will not get a license key until they either have a successful charge to their credit card or they go through the existing process in SFDC.

> Should you wish to make payment using another method, please contact our Billing team.

Author: Great point, thanks @TQuock. 

My understanding around this particular line was that it's related to the other payment methods [listed in the FAQ](https://docs.mattermost.com/overview/faq.html#what-are-the-options-to-purchase-a-subscription-to-mattermost-enterprise-edition). 

@esadur, @wiersgallak - do we want to explicitly mention the different purchase methods in this document? Or should we refer to the link above? Or, should we remove the FAQ content and refer to this doc instead?

> Should you wish to make payment using another method, please contact our Billing team.

Reviewer 4: @rbradleyhaas - Can you expand on this. Does this mean that the customer would not go through the customer portal to register and would go through a sales rep to purchase or renew as part of v1.0? If they are to go through a sales rep, would the customer not have a customer portal? 

I want to understand the motion for this first release. Is it that we only put customers through the customer portal if they are new and want to pay by credit card? Or are we pushing all new customers to the customer portal and giving them the option to pay via credit card. If they elect not to pay via credit card, then we are giving them other options like check/ACH? If the latter is the case, then I am not comfortable with signing off as this is a different motion then what we currently have in place.    

> @TQuock if the customer is not purchasing with a credit card, they go through the normal Salesforce process with Sales/CSM. They will not get a license key until they either have a successful charge to their credit card or they go through the existing process in SFDC.

How is user defined for Enterprise Edition subscriptions?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

See our `frequently asked questions about licensing <https://about.mattermost.com/pricing/#faq>`__.

Do I need to pay for deactivated users?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

No. If you deactivate a user that user is not counted as an active user during your annual renewal process. You can deactivate users manually via System Console and also via Active Directory/LDAP synchronization, the CLI tool, and the server APIs.

If you choose to pull SQL reports from the database to monitor individual activity to make deactivation decisions, and you are running under high user load, we recommend the reports are pulled from a read replica of the database.

> Can I use the same license key on multiple Enterprise Edition servers?

Reviewer 3: Elaine, Tim, and Rachel brought up issues with this question. This question and answer are already in the docs as written (moved from another file). I'm going to look into changing the content here.

Author: Let me know whether it'll be best to just remove it for now.

Author: @TQuock, I've updated the wording. LMK if it works better.

Licensing and Subscription
----------------------

Mattermost offers a `secure self-service Customer Portal <https://customers.mattermost.com>`_ where you can easily purchase and manage your Mattermost Enterprise subscriptions.

> Licenses purchased via the Customer Portal are stored and listed in the portal, with license details including their start and end dates, providing you with an at-a-glance overview of your account. You also have full access to your billing history  making it easier to manage purchases and renewal dates.

Reviewer: Consider describing how a license and subscription are related.  "A license is a representation of the subscription you purchased. "

> Licenses purchased via the Customer Portal are stored and listed in the portal, with license details including their start and end dates, providing you with an at-a-glance overview of your account. You also have full access to your billing history  making it easier to manage purchases and renewal dates.

Author: ```suggestion
When you purchase a subscription, a license is generated. This gives you access to Mattermost's Enterprise features. Subscriptions purchased via the Customer Portal are stored and listed in the portal, with license details including their start and end dates, providing you with an at-a-glance overview of your account. You also have full access to your billing history  making it easier to manage purchases and renewal dates.
```

> When you purchase a subscription, a license is generated. This gives you access to Mattermost's Enterprise features. Subscriptions purchased via the Customer Portal are stored and listed in the portal, with license details including their start and end dates, providing you with an at-a-glance overview of your account. You also have full access to your billing history  making it easier to manage purchases and renewal dates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you purchase a subscription, a license is generated. This license gives you access to Mattermost's Enterprise features. Subscriptions purchased via the Customer Portal are stored and listed in the portal, with license details including their start and end dates, providing you with an at-a-glance overview of your account. You also have full access to your billing history  making it easier to manage purchases and renewal dates.
```

You can access your Customer Portal account to view information about your:

- Subscription purchases
- Licenses
- Customer Portal account password
- Organization information
- Payment methods
- Renewals (available in a future release)
- Active users (available in a future release)

Purchasing an Enterprise license
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**If you don't have a customer portal account**

> To create a Customer Portal account, navigate to the **landing page**. Enter the required information and check the box to confirm **I have read and agree to the Privacy Policy**. Then select **Next**. When you've completed the process and validated your email address, you can proceed with the steps below. 

Author: ```suggestion
Create a `Customer Portal account <https://customers.mattermost.com>`__. Enter the required information and check the box to confirm **I have read and agree to the Privacy Policy**. Then select **Next**. When you've completed the process and validated your email address, you can proceed with the steps below. 
```

**If you have an existing Customer Portal account**

1. Log in to your `Customer Portal <https://customers.mattermost.com>`_ account. 
2. Choose a subscription type and enter the number of users in the **Order summary** field.

>    - This indicates the number of users you can have on this subscription's instance. For more information about how users are defined, see our `FAQ <https://about.mattermost.com/pricing/#faq>`_. 

Reviewer 5: This is not rendering as a bullet point.

Author: Fixed, thanks!

3. (Optional for E20) You can add `Premier Support <https://mattermost.com/support/>`_, the cost of which is automatically added to your order total.
4. Select **Next Step**.
5. Enter your billing and payment information.
6. Accept the **Terms**.
7. Select **Complete**.
8. Choose **Download the license key**.

If you experience any problems with your transaction, please contact our Support Team via the form provided in the Customer Portal. If possible, keep the error message/number that you received on hand as it may assist with their investigation.

Applying the license key
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Your Mattermost Enterprise license is ready for use immediately, and is applied via the Mattermost System Console. 

Author: ```suggestion
Your Mattermost Enterprise license is ready to use and be applied via the Mattermost System Console. 
```

> System Admin access is required in order to apply the license. If you are not a Mattermost System Admin, contact your Mattermost System Admin. 

Author: ```suggestion
System Admin access is required in order to apply the license. If you are not a Mattermost System Admin, contact your organization's Mattermost System Admin. 
```

> **For existing Mattermost deployments** 

Author: ```suggestion
**If you already have Mattermost installed** 
```

On the Customer Portal **Subscriptions** page, select **Download License** to download the license key for your subscription. In Mattermost, follow the steps provided in **System Console > About > Edition and License** to apply your license key.

You can also use the `CLI <https://docs.mattermost.com/install/ee-install.html#changing-a-license-key>`__ to apply the license.

> **For new Mattermost deployments**

Author: ```suggestion
**If you don't have Mattermost installed**
```

If you have not yet installed and deployed a Mattermost instance, visit the `Deployment Guide <https://docs.mattermost.com/deployment/deployment.html>`_ to get started. For information on creating a System Admin account visit the `Administrator Tasks <https://docs.mattermost.com/deployment/on-boarding.html>`_ documentation. 

Viewing license information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For licenses purchased using the Customer Portal, you can view the license start date, expiry date, number of users and license type in your account under **Subscription**.

> If you are not able to view this information, please contact your Customer Success Manager. 

Author: ```suggestion
If you have an existing subscription and license, not purchased via the Customer Portal, this information will not be listed.
```

Adding more users to a purchased license
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You can add more users during your subscription period without requesting a license.

Author: ```suggestion
To add more users to your existing license, contact your Customer Success Manager.
```

> During the annual renewal, a retroactive charge will be placed for any unique users added during the past subscription period that is above the licensed total unique users in the current paid subscription. The retroactive charge per user will be the initial subscription cost per user.

Author: ```suggestion
You may incur retroactive charges for any unique users added that exceed the licensed total unique users in the current paid subscription. The retroactive charge per user will be the initial subscription cost per user.
```

Author: @TQuock, want to run this by you and confirm that the wording works for you.

Renewing an Enterprise license
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ability to renew your license in the Customer Portal will be available in a future release.

> To renew your license in the meantime, contact your CSM to start the renewal process.

Author: ```suggestion
To renew your license in the meantime, contact your Customer Success Manager to start the renewal process. Alternatively, `contact us <https://mattermost.com/contact-us/>`_ for assistance. 
```

Frequently Asked Questions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Are my credit card details safe?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We use `Stripe <https://stripe.com/payments>`_ to process credit card transactions. We do not store any credit card details at any stage. Payments made by credit card are authenticated using `3D Secure <https://support.payfast.co.za/article/96-what-is-3d-secure-visa-secure-mastercard-securecode>`__, which is PCI-DSS compliant.

> Should you wish to make payment using another method, please contact our Billing team.

Author: ```suggestion
Should you wish to make payment using another method, please contact our `Billing team <mailto:AR@mattermost.com>`_.
```

How is user defined for Enterprise Edition subscriptions?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

See our `frequently asked questions about licensing <https://about.mattermost.com/pricing/#faq>`__.

Do I need to pay for deactivated users?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

No. If you deactivate a user that user is not counted as an active user during your annual renewal process. You can deactivate users manually via System Console and also via Active Directory/LDAP synchronization, the CLI tool, and the server APIs.

If you choose to pull SQL reports from the database to monitor individual activity to make deactivation decisions, and you are running under high user load, we recommend the reports are pulled from a read replica of the database.

Can I use the same license key on multiple Enterprise Edition servers?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Customers who purchase the Premier Support add-on to E20 are licensed to run with the same Mattermost license key in a production deployment and up to 4 non-production deployments of Mattermost (for example: development, staging, user acceptance testing, etc.).

Author: ```suggestion
License keys for unlocking the advanced features in Mattermost Enterprise Edition can only be applied to a single deployment. A deployment consists of either a single Mattermost application server, or multiple linked Mattermost application servers in a high availability configuration with access to a single database.
```

> For E10 deployments and deployments where no dremier Support add-on is included, license keys for unlocking the advanced features in Mattermost Enterprise Edition may only be applied to a single deployment. A deployment consists of either a single Mattermost application server, or multiple linked Mattermost application servers in a high availability configuration.

Author: ```suggestion
Customers who purchase the Premier Support add-on to E20 are licensed to run with a single deployment of Mattermost license key in production and up to 4 non-production deployments of Mattermost (for example: development, staging, user acceptance testing, etc.).
```

> Customers who purchase the Premier Support add-on to E20 are licensed to run with a single deployment of Mattermost license key in production and up to 4 non-production deployments of Mattermost (for example: development, staging, user acceptance testing, etc.).

Author: ```suggestion
Customers who purchase the Premier Support add-on to E20 are licensed to run with a single-server deployment of Mattermost license key in production and up to 4 non-production server deployments of Mattermost (for example: development, staging, user acceptance testing, etc.).
```

> Is my subscription active immediately?

Author: ```suggestion
Is my license available immediately?
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Yes, once your payment is successfully processed your license is immediately available in your account.

Author: ```suggestion
Yes, once your payment is successfully processed your license is immediately available to download.
```

> Is there a limit to the subscription value I can purchase?

Author: ```suggestion
Is there a maximum number of users per subscription?
```

Can other members of my organization use this account to manage our subscription?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We currently support a single account/user per organization. The ability to add multiple users per organization will be available in a future release.

What happens if my department buys Mattermost Enterprise Edition and then central IT buys a high volume license that also covers my department?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Mattermost Enterprise Edition subscriptions and support benefits are licensed per production instance.

When the subscription term for your department's production instance expires, you can either discontinue your department's production instance and move to the instance hosted by central IT (which can optionally provision one or more teams for your department to control), or you can renew your subscription to maintain control of your department's instance (e.g., to configure or customize the system in a manner highly specific to your line-of-business) in addition to using the instance from central IT.

> How do I delete my account?

Author: ```suggestion
How do I delete my Customer Portal account?
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Please contact Mattermost Support for assistance with deleting your account.

Author: ```suggestion
Please contact Mattermost Support for assistance with deleting your Customer Portal account.
```
